Updated Fitacf documentation (#280)
SuperDARN/rst: docs/references/general/fitacf.md

# FITACF files 

FITACF files are a fitted post-processed data product from RAWACF files (sometimes dat files).

## Naming Conventions

> Currently the common naming convention for fitacf files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently the common naming convention for FITACF files is:
```

> YYYY.MM.DD.HH.mm.ss.<3-letter abbreviation>.fitacf.bz2

Some radars run stereo mode and separate the different channels by adding a letter to the file name:

> YYYY.MM.DD.HH.mm.ss.<3-letter abbreviation>.[a-d].bz2

For example, King Salmon was running stereo mode on 2019-02-01 as it can be shown in the file names `20190201.0401.00.ksr.a.fitacf.bz2` and `20190201.0401.00.ksr.b.fitacf.bz2`.
Each file contains data from a different frequency. 

!!! Note

>     Sometimes modes like `twofsound` will write data in the same file but separate different frequencies by channels.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Sometimes modes like `twofsound` will write data into a single file. In this case the two frequencies are marked as two separate channels.
```

> ## Versions 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Fitting Algorithms
```

> RST is the main software used and maintained by the SuperDARN community that includes up incoming fitting algorithms. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RST includes several fitting algorithms which are used to determine the physical properties of the received backscatter (power, velocity, spectral width, elevation) from the raw autocorrelation functions. 
```

> Some known fitting algorithms are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RST includes the following fitting algorithms:
```

- FITACF 2.0 (outdated algorithm)
- FITACF 2.5 (current default of RST 4.3.1)
- FITACF 3.0 (new fitting algorithm)

> Other fitting algorithms that are not implemented in yet is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other fitting algorithms that are not yet implemented in RST:
```

> - lmfit2 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a link to this so people can find it?
```suggestion
- [lmfit2](https://github.com/asreimer/lmfit2)
```

| *noise.mean*            | **None**         | ***float***  | Average Noise from clear frequency band                                                 |
| *channel*               | **None**         | ***short***  | Channel number for variant changes in radars parameters in one scan, ex) frequency      |
| *bmnum*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Beam number                                                                             |
| *bmazm*                 | **None**         | ***float***  | Beam Azimuth                                                                            |
| *scan*                  | **None**         | ***short***  | Scan flag, switches between 0 to 1 or 0 to -1 to indicate a new scan                    |
| *offset*                | **None**         | ***short***  | Offset between channels of stereo radars                                                |
| *rxrise*                | *us* | ***short***  | Receiver rise time                                                                      |
| *intt.sc*               | *s*        | ***short***  | whole number of seconds of integration time                                             |

> | *intt.us*               | *us* | ***int***    | Factional number of microseconds of integration time                                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *intt.us*               | *us* | ***int***    | Fractional number of microseconds of integration time                                    |
```

| *txpl*                  | *us* | ***short***  | Transmitted pulse length                                                                |
| *mpinc*                 | *us* | ***short***  | Multi-pulse increment                                                                   |
| *mppul*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Number of pulses in the sequence                                                        |
| *mplgs*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Number of lags in the sequence                                                          |

> | *mplgexes*              | **None**         | ***short***  |                                                                                         |

Author: @egthomas @ksterne  do you want to fill this row in?

Reviewer 3: AFAIK, `mplgexs` is not a field in fitacf files, only fitex files.

Author: ```
dmapdump 20000413.0000.00.gbr.fitacf | less
       short   "mppul" = 7
        short   "mplgs" = 18
        short   "mplgexs" = 0
        short   "ifmode" = 0
        short   "nrang" = 70
```
Then explain this?

Author: I don't know why it is in fitacf but it does appear :/

Reviewer 3: It's not defined in [fitblk.h](https://github.com/SuperDARN/rst/blob/develop/codebase/superdarn/src.lib/tk/fitacf.2.5/include/fitblk.h).

But it is defined in [rprm.c](https://github.com/SuperDARN/rst/blame/444abd4f38ff18bb6f9a25b6272254fe8af8b4d0/codebase/superdarn/src.lib/tk/radar.1.22/src/rprm.c#L282), so the "Radar parameter" structure just defines it, regardless of whether or not it makes sense to. The blame history shows it "has always been here", which means it was added by VT when they did the fitex stuff.

Anything with the `ex` suffix is fitex related though, not fitacf. It was needed so that VT could process and fit the `tauscan` pulse sequence modes they were running.

Author: Yea, well still in fitacf right now so I would like to still document what it means. Thanks for the information, I will see if it is documented there.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we can just document `mplgexes` as e.g. "(not used in FITACF file format)"?

| *noise.sky*             | **None**         | ***float***  | Sky noise                                                                               |
| *noise.lag0*            | **None**         | ***float***  | Lag zero power of noise ACF                                                             |
| *noise.vel*             | **None**         | ***float***  | Velocity from fitting the noise ACF                                                     |

### Vectors 

!!! Note
    *slist* contains the range gates that obtained data points during the integration period of the beam. The length of *slist* determines the length of the following vector fields, let this be defined as *num_pts*.

| Field name  | Units           | Dimensionality | Data Type   | Description                                                                 |
| :---------- | :-----:         | :-------:      | :---:       | :---                                                                        |
| *ptab*      | **None**        | *[mppul]*      | ***short*** | Pulse table                                                                 |

> | *ltab*      | **None**        | *[ltab][2]*    | ***short*** | Lag table                                                                   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *ltab*      | **None**        | *[mplgs+1][2]*    | ***short*** | Lag table                                                                   |
```

> | *pwr0*      | *Db*      | *[nrang]*      | ***float*** | Lag zero power                                                              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *pwr0*      | *dB*      | *[nrang]*      | ***float*** | Lag zero power                                                              |
```

| *slist*     | **None**        | *[num_pts]*    | ***short*** | List of range gates that obtained data points during the integration period |
| *nlag*      | **None**        | *[num_pts]*    | ***short*** | Number of points in the fit                                                 |
| *qflg*      | **None**        | *[num_pts]*    | ***char***  | Quality of fit flag for ACF                                                 |
| *gflg*      | **None**        | *[num_pts]*    | ***char***  | Ground scatter flag for ACF, 1 - ground scatter, 0 - other scatter          |
| *p_l*       | *Db*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power from lambda fit of ACF                                                |
| *p_l_e*     | *Db*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power error from lambda fit of ACF                                          |
| *p_s*       | *Db*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power from sigma fit of ACF                                                 |

> | *p_s_e*     | *Db*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power error from sigma fit of ACF                                           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *p_l*       | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power from lambda fit of ACF                                                |
| *p_l_e*     | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power error from lambda fit of ACF                                          |
| *p_s*       | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power from sigma fit of ACF                                                 |
| *p_s_e*     | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power error from sigma fit of ACF                                           |
```

| *v*         | *m/s* | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | velocity from ACF                                                           |
| *v_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* |  ***float*** |Velocity error from ACF |
| *w_l* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width from lambda fit of ACF | 
| *w_l_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width error from lambda fit of ACF |
| *w_s* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width from sigma fit of ACF | 
| *w_s_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width error from sigma fit of ACF | 
| *sd_l* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of lambda fit | 
| *sd_s* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of sigma fit | 
| *sd_phi* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of phase fit of ACF | 
| *x_qflg* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***char*** | Quality flag of XCF | 
| *x_gflg* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***char*** | Ground scatter flag of XCF | 

> | *x_p_l* | *Db* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power from lamdba of XCF | 

Author: This comment conflicted with Emma's comment. So I re-did it after committing hers.

> | *x_p_l_e* | *Db* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power error from lambda fit of XCF | 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *x_p_l* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power from lamdba of XCF | 
| *x_p_l_e* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power error from lambda fit of XCF | 
```

| *x_p_s* | *Db* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power from sigma fit of XCF | 

> | *x_p_s_e* | *Db* | *[num_pts]* |  ***float*** | Power  error from sigma fit  of XCF | 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *x_p_l* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power from lamdba of XCF | 
| *x_p_l_e* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power error from lambda fit of XCF | 
| *x_p_s* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power from sigma fit of XCF | 
| *x_p_s_e* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* |  ***float*** | Power  error from sigma fit  of XCF | 
```

| *x_v* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Velocity from XCF | 
| *x_v_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Velocity error from XCF | 
| *x_w_l* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width from lamdba fit of XCF | 
| *x_w_l_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width error from lamdbad fit of XCF | 
| *x_w_s* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral wdith from sigma fit of XCF | 
| *x_w_s_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral wdith error from sigma fit of XCF | 
| *phi0* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Phase determination at lag zero of the ACF | 

> | *phi0_e* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Phase determination error at lag zero of the ACF | 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *phi0* | *radians* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Phase determination at lag zero of the ACF | 
| *phi0_e* | *radians* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Phase determination error at lag zero of the ACF | 
```

| *elv* | *degrees* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Elevation angle estimate |

> | *elv_low* | *degrees* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Lowest estimated of elevation angle |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *elv_low* | *degrees* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Lowest estimate of elevation angle |
```

| *elv_high* | *degrees* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Highest estimate of elevation angle |
| *x_sd_l* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of lambda fit of XCF|
| *x_sd_s* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of sigma fit of XCF |
| *x_sd_phi* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of phase fit of XCF |

## File structure

> FITACF files are comprised of records that record data nominally every 3 seconds for each integration time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FITACF files contain typically 2 hours of data. Individual records in the FITACF file contain the fitted data for a single integration period (nominally 3s or 7s). 
```

> Nominally each integration time will change the beam, `bmnum` indicates the beam number. However, some control programs like *camping mode* will stay on one beam for a whole scan. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the standard operational mode (common mode) where each beam is scanned sequentially, the beam number `bmnum` will change each integration period. However, some control programs will stay on one beam for a whole scan (called a "camping beam"). 
```

> A scan is determined with the `scan` flag by the value. 1 or -1 inidicates the beginning of scan then the value changes to 0 for the rest the scan. When the `scan` value changes from 0 to 1 this indicates the end of the scan. Nominally scans try to fit in a 60 second window. Older FITACF files may show scan times of 120 seconds. Certain *control programs* could change the scan length as well especially newer upcoming radars. During  *normal scan* beams will scan increasing/decreasing from 0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A "scan" is a beam sequence which gets repeated. In the common mode (*normal scan*), one scan is completed when each beam has been sampled sequentially from 0 to `bmnum-1` (or `bmnum-1` to 0). Scans usually begin on whole-minute boundaries and last for either 1min or 2min. Custom control programs which define different scan lengths may also exist. The `scan` flag is used to indicate the beginning of each scan pattern. A value of 1 or -1 indicates the beginning of the scan, and then the value changes to 0 for the rest the scan. When the `scan` value changes from 0 back to 1 this indicates the end of the scan. 
```

I've removed references to "older/newer" radars & fitacf files since it's not really relevant to how a scan is defined.

> to 15, however, radars that have more than 16 beams will sometimes start at other beams to meet the 3 second integration time and 60 second scan time. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A "scan" is a beam sequence which gets repeated. In the common mode (*normal scan*), one scan is completed when each beam has been sampled sequentially from 0 to `bmnum-1` (or `bmnum-1` to 0). Radars with more than 16 beams *may* sample a subset of beams rather than their full field of view in order to maintain a 1min scan time. 
Scans usually begin on whole-minute boundaries and last for either 1min or 2min. Custom control programs which define different scan lengths may also exist. The `scan` flag is used to indicate the beginning of each scan pattern. A value of 1 or -1 indicates the beginning of the scan, and then the value changes to 0 for the rest the scan. When the `scan` value changes from 0 back to 1 this indicates the end of the scan. 
```

!!! Note 
    *Control programs* can change the beam pattern; `cp` will indicate the *control program* numerical value, and `combf` sometimes contains the *control program's* command/name. 

> Uncommonly FITACF records can appear partial meaning there are missing **vector** fields. For example: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Occasionally you may find records in a FITACF file which are missing some of the **vector** fields. For example: 
```

```bash
        float   "noise.sky" = 17.799486
        float   "noise.lag0" = 0.000000
        float   "noise.vel" = 0.000000
arrays:
        short   "ptab" [7]
        short   "ltab" [19][2]
        float   "pwr0" [100]
scalars:
        char    "radar.revision.major" = 1
        char    "radar.revision.minor" = 18
        char    "origin.code" = 0

```
Partial records are a legacy behavior of RST that happens because of potentially "bad" data, or no data was collected, making `slist` empty. 

> Currently, this is an ongoing investigation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Partial records are a legacy behavior of the DMAP file format resulting from potentially "bad" data or missing data, which produces an empty `slist`. The Data Analysis Working Group is investigating this behavior.
```

Reviewer 2: @egthomas Yes, I think that in most cases the partial records are due to an empty slist (probably including the example provided here). But @mts299 has reported that fields can be missing for other reasons (e.g. https://github.com/SuperDARN/rst/issues/230#issuecomment-567244431). I think we should rephrase this line to better emphasise that most of the time this is the nominal behaviour.

Author: I have seen them in MAP files as well. Are we okay with what @ecbland suggested? I can commit it.

Reviewer 2: @mts299 I've edited my suggestion to better emphasise that the partial records are the nominal behaviour for the DMAP file format. I realise this is not the whole story, but with our current understanding of the issue we probably can't add anything else to the documentation that would be helpful to users.

| *mplgexes*              | **None**         | ***short***  |                                                                                         |
| *ifmode*                | **None**         | ***short***  | Receiver was processing at an IF (intermediate frequency) instead of RF (radio frequency) band       |
| *nrang*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Number of range range gates                                                             |
| *frang*                 | *km*       | ***short***  | Distance to the first range gate                                                        |
| *rsep*                  | *km*       | ***short***  | Range seperation                                                                        |
| *xcf*                   | **None**         | ***short***  | XCF flag                                                                                |
| *tfreq*                 | *kHz*      | ***short***  | Transmitted frequency                                                                   |

> | *mxpwr*                 | *Db*       | ***int***    | Maximum power                                                                           |

Author: ```suggestion
| *mxpwr*                 | *dB*       | ***int***    | Maximum power  
```

| *p_s_e*     | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power error from sigma fit of ACF                                           |
| *v*         | *m/s* | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Velocity from ACF                                                           |
| *v_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* |  ***float*** | Velocity error from ACF |
| *w_l* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width from lambda fit of ACF | 
| *w_l_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width error from lambda fit of ACF |
| *w_s* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width from sigma fit of ACF | 
| *w_s_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width error from sigma fit of ACF | 
| *sd_l* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of lambda fit | 
| *sd_s* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of sigma fit | 
| *sd_phi* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of phase fit of ACF | 
| *x_qflg* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***char*** | Quality flag of XCF | 
| *x_gflg* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***char*** | Ground scatter flag of XCF | 

> | *x_p_l* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power from lamdba of XCF | 

Author: ```suggestion
| *x_p_l* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power from lamdba fit of XCF | 
```

<!-- Copyright (C) 2020 SuperDARN Canada, University of Saskatchewan 
author(s): Marina Schmidt 

Disclaimer: License under GNU v3.0, the file is found in the root directory under LICENSE 

-->
# FITACF files 

FITACF files are a fitted post-processed data product from RAWACF files (sometimes dat files).

## Naming Conventions

Currently the common naming convention for FITACF files is:

> YYYY.MM.DD.HH.mm.ss.<3-letter abbreviation>.fitacf

> Some radars operate using more than one channel and separate them by adding a letter to the file name:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SuperDARN radars routinely change operating frequency. Some operating modes use multiple frequencies, either at the same time, or by alternating between frequencies. As a result, some files from some radars include all records for all frequencies in the same file and other radars separate out the individual frequencies into separate files, designated by a channel letter in the file name:
```

> YYYY.MM.DD.HH.mm.ss.<3-letter abbreviation>.[a-d].fitacf

For example, on 2019-02-01 the King Salmon radar (KSR) was operating simultaneously on two channels as seen from the file names `20190201.0401.00.ksr.a.fitacf` and `20190201.0401.00.ksr.b.fitacf`.

> Each file contains data from a different frequency. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each file contains data from a different frequency channel. 
```

!!! Note

>     Sometimes modes like `twofsound` will write data into a single file. In this case the two frequencies are marked as two separate channels.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Sometimes modes like `twofsound` will write data into a single file. In this case the two frequencies are marked as two separate channels, denoted using the `chnum` parameter. However, it is important to note that some of the original SuperDARN radars were capable of operating in a `STEREO` mode (transmitting and receiving on 2 frequencies simultaneously), which was the original intended usage of the `chnum` parameter.
```

Reviewer 2: Good addition, @asreimer . I suggest a slight change to clarify that there are still some stereo radars in the network (including newer ones)

```suggestion
Sometimes modes like `twofsound` will write data into a single file. In this case the two frequencies are marked as two separate channels, denoted using the `chnum` parameter. However, it is important to note that some SuperDARN radars have stereo capability (transmitting and receiving on 2 frequencies simultaneously), which was the original intended usage of the `chnum` parameter.
```

Reviewer 2: Also, is it called "chnum" or "channel"? I can't see any field in the fitacf files called chnum.

Reviewer 3: Oh, right, it's "channel" in fitted files and "chnum" in iqdat/rawacf. Oof, nice catch.

Author: I am committing @ecbland if that is okay. I have to pick one :p

## Fitting Algorithms

> RST includes several fitting algorithms which are used to determine the physical properties of the received backscatter (power, velocity, spectral width, elevation) from the raw autocorrelation functions. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RST includes several fitting algorithms which are used to determine the physical properties of the received backscatter (power, velocity, spectral width, elevation) from the mean autocorrelation and crosscorrelation function estimates. 
```

RST includes the following fitting algorithms:

- FITACF 2.5 (default)
- FITACF 3.0 (optional)
- [FITEX2](https://doi.org/10.1002/rds.20031) (optional)
- [LMFIT](https://doi.org/10.1002/rds.20031) (optional)

Other fitting algorithms that are not yet implemented in RST:

> - [lmfit2](https://github.com/asreimer/lmfit2)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [lmfit2](https://doi.org/10.1002/2017RS006450)
```

| *atten*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Attenuation level                                                                       |
| *lagfr*                 | *us* | ***short***  | Lag to first range                                                                      |
| *smsep*                 | *us* | ***short***  | Sample seperation                                                                       |
| *ercod*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Error Code                                                                              |
| *stat.agc*              | **None**         | ***short***  | AGC status word                                                                         |
| *stat.lopwr*            | **None**         | ***short***  | LOPWR status word                                                                       |
| *noise.search*          | **None**         | ***float***  | Calculated noise from clear frequency search                                            |
| *noise.mean*            | **None**         | ***float***  | Average noise from clear frequency band                                                 |

> | *channel*               | **None**         | ***short***  | Channel number for variant changes in radars parameters in one scan, ex) frequency      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *channel*               | **None**         | ***short***  | Channel number, historically used to denote different Tx/Rx channels on Stereo radars, now also used to denote changes in radars parameters between scans, e.g. alternating between 2 frequencies scan to scan      |
```

Reviewer 2: Again, slight rewording since there are several operational stereo radars
```suggestion
| *channel*               | **None**         | ***short***  | Channel number, used to denote different Tx/Rx channels on Stereo radars, and to denote changes in radar operating parameters between scans, e.g. alternating between 2 frequencies scan-to-scan      |
```

Author: Taking @ecbland

> | *bmnum*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Beam number                                                                             |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *bmnum*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Beam number, zero based indexing                                                                          |
```

| *bmazm*                 | **None**         | ***float***  | Beam azimuth                                                                            |

> | *scan*                  | **None**         | ***short***  | Scan flag, switches between 0 to 1 or 0 to -1 to indicate a new scan                    |

Reviewer 3: Do + and - designate direction? @ksterne @egthomas @ecbland ? I seem to recall that the sign means clockwise/counterclockwise?

Reviewer 2: @asreimer This is true for CUTLASS-style radars (HAN, PYK, LYR, HKW et al), but the negative scan flag has also been used as a way to flag bad data. I don't have a good overview of how all radars use the scan flag.

Some previous relevant issues:

- https://github.com/SuperDARN/rst/issues/148
- https://github.com/vtsuperdarn/VTRST3.5/issues/11
- https://github.com/SuperDARN/rst/issues/85

Reviewer 3: So from https://github.com/SuperDARN/rst/issues/148#issuecomment-399135560 at least, it appears that the scan flag has **not** been used to flag bad data. So on some radars, it's for indicating a scan direction, and on others ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

```suggestion
| *scan*                  | **None**         | ***short***  | Scan flag, switches between 0 to +/-1. For some radars, the sign indicates scan direction.                    |
```

| *offset*                |  *us* | ***short***  | Offset between channels for a stereo radar                                                       |
| *rxrise*                | *us* | ***short***  | Receiver rise time                                                                      |

> | *intt.sc*               | *s*        | ***short***  | whole number of seconds of integration time                                             |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *intt.sc*               | *s*        | ***short***  | Number of seconds of integration time                                             |
```

> | *intt.us*               | *us* | ***int***    | Fractional number of microseconds of integration time                                    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *intt.us*               | *us* | ***int***    | Number of microseconds of integration time                                    |
```

| *txpl*                  | *us* | ***short***  | Transmitted pulse length                                                                |
| *mpinc*                 | *us* | ***short***  | Multi-pulse increment                                                                   |
| *mppul*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Number of pulses in the sequence                                                        |

> | *mplgs*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Number of lags in the sequence                                                          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *mplgs*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Number of lags estimated from the sequence                                                      |
```

> | *mplgexes*              | **None**         | ***short***  |                                                                                         |

Author: ```suggestion
| *mplgexs*              | **None**         | ***short***  |   Number of lags used for tauscan. This field originates from `fittex` algorithm and is not used in FITACF file format. | 
```

Author: @ecbland @asreimer approve the commit if you agree with the description.

> | *ifmode*                | **None**         | ***short***  | Receiver was processing at an IF (intermediate frequency) instead of RF (radio frequency) band       |

Reviewer 3: Is there a history on the description here? I would like to modify the text.

Author: I don't know what the history was, I just found it in DaVitpy comments. How did you want to modify it? 

I just hope we are not getting too pedantic about this and holding up the progress.

> | *ifmode*                | **None**         | ***short***  | Receiver was processing at an IF (intermediate frequency) instead of RF (radio frequency) band       |

Reviewer 3: Just wanted to check before suggesting an edit. Voltage samples are collected by the receiver, either by:

1. mixing to baseband (see heterodyne or superheterodyne receivers) and then digitizing the signal, or
2. mixing to an IF and digitizing

With Borealis and the UAF SuperDARN radars, they can directly digitize the received signal without the need for mixing. So here's my suggested edits:

```suggestion
| *ifmode*                | **None**         | ***short***  |  A flag indicating that the receiver voltage samples were obtained by digitizing the signal at an intermediate frequency (and then digitally mixed to baseband) instead of mixing to baseband and then digitizing (`ifmode=0`).         |
```

If this PR takes weeks, then sure, maybe we're being too pedantic. It's only been open for 8 days? It would be nice to have descriptions that are useful. When I did my PhD, I had to suffer through the existing descriptions which in some cases are too short to be meaningful and/or cryptic.

| *nrang*                 | **None**         | ***short***  | Number of range range gates                                                             |
| *frang*                 | *km*       | ***short***  | Distance to the first range gate                                                        |
| *rsep*                  | *km*       | ***short***  | Range seperation                                                                        |

> | *xcf*                   | **None**         | ***short***  | XCF flag                                                                                |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *xcf*                   | **None**         | ***short***  | XCF flag, indicates if XCF for elevation angle estimation is available (1) or not (0)                                                                                |
```

| *noise.sky*             | **None**         | ***float***  | Sky noise                                                                               |
| *noise.lag0*            | **None**         | ***float***  | Lag zero power of noise ACF                                                             |
| *noise.vel*             | **None**         | ***float***  | Velocity from fitting the noise ACF                                                     |

### Vectors 

!!! Note
    *slist* contains the range gates that obtained data points during the integration period of the beam. The length of *slist* determines the length of the following vector fields, let this be defined as *num_pts*.

| Field name  | Units           | Dimensionality | Data Type   | Description                                                                 |
| :---------- | :-----:         | :-------:      | :---:       | :---                                                                        |
| *ptab*      | **None**        | *[mppul]*      | ***short*** | Pulse table                                                                 |

> | *ltab*      | **None**        | *[mplgs+1][2]*    | ***short*** | Lag table                                                                   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *ltab*      | **None**        | *[mplgs+1][2]*    | ***short*** | Lag table, showing which pulses to use to estimate each lag                                                                  |
```

> | *pwr0*      | *dB*      | *[nrang]*      | ***float*** | Lag zero power                                                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *pwr0*      | *dB*      | *[nrang]*      | ***float*** | Lag zero power (actually SNR), estimated from voltage samples (not fitted)                                                              |
```

| *slist*     | **None**        | *[num_pts]*    | ***short*** | List of range gates where a good fit to the ACF was achieved during the integration period |
| *nlag*      | **None**        | *[num_pts]*    | ***short*** | Number of points in the fit                                                 |
| *qflg*      | **None**        | *[num_pts]*    | ***char***  | Quality of fit flag for ACF                                                 |
| *gflg*      | **None**        | *[num_pts]*    | ***char***  | Ground scatter flag for ACF, 1 - ground scatter, 0 - other scatter          |

> | *p_l*       | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power from lambda fit of ACF                                                |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *p_l*       | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power (actually SNR) from lambda fit of ACF                                                |
```

> | *p_l_e*     | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power error from lambda fit of ACF                                          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *p_l_e*     | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power (actually SNR) error from lambda fit of ACF                                          |
```

> | *p_s*       | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power from sigma fit of ACF                                                 |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *p_s*       | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power (actually SNR) from sigma fit of ACF                                                 |
```

> | *p_s_e*     | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power error from sigma fit of ACF                                           |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *p_s_e*     | *dB*      | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Power (actually SNR) error from sigma fit of ACF                                           |
```

> | *v*         | *m/s* | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Velocity from ACF                                                           |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *v*         | *m/s* | *[num_pts]*    | ***float*** | Velocity from fit of ACF                                                           |
```

> | *v_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* |  ***float*** | Velocity error from ACF |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *v_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* |  ***float*** | Velocity error from fit of ACF |
```

| *w_l* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width from lambda fit of ACF | 
| *w_l_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width error from lambda fit of ACF |
| *w_s* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width from sigma fit of ACF | 
| *w_s_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width error from sigma fit of ACF | 
| *sd_l* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of lambda fit | 
| *sd_s* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of sigma fit | 
| *sd_phi* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of phase fit of ACF | 
| *x_qflg* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***char*** | Quality flag of XCF | 
| *x_gflg* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***char*** | Ground scatter flag of XCF | 
| *x_p_l* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power from lamdba fit of XCF | 
| *x_p_l_e* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power error from lambda fit of XCF | 
| *x_p_s* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Power from sigma fit of XCF | 
| *x_p_s_e* | *dB* | *[num_pts]* |  ***float*** | Power  error from sigma fit  of XCF | 

> | *x_v* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Velocity from XCF | 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *x_v* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Velocity from fit of XCF | 
```

> | *x_v_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Velocity error from XCF | 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *x_v_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Velocity error from fit of XCF | 
```

| *x_w_l* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width from lambda fit of XCF | 
| *x_w_l_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral width error from lambda fit of XCF | 
| *x_w_s* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral wdith from sigma fit of XCF | 
| *x_w_s_e* | *m/s* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Spectral wdith error from sigma fit of XCF | 
| *phi0* | *radians* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Phase determination at lag zero of the ACF | 
| *phi0_e* | *radians* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Phase determination error at lag zero of the ACF | 
| *elv* | *degrees* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Elevation angle estimate |
| *elv_low* | *degrees* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Lowest estimate of elevation angle |
| *elv_high* | *degrees* | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Highest estimate of elevation angle |
| *x_sd_l* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of lambda fit of XCF|
| *x_sd_s* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of sigma fit of XCF |
| *x_sd_phi* | **None** | *[num_pts]* | ***float*** | Standard deviation of phase fit of XCF |

## File structure

> FITACF files contain typically 2 hours of data. Individual records in the FITACF file contain the fitted data for a single integration period (nominally 3s or 7s). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
FITACF files contain typically 2 hours of data. Individual records in the FITACF file contain the fitted data for a single integration period (usually 3s or 7s, but depends on operating mode of the radar). 
```

In the standard operational mode (common mode) where each beam is scanned sequentially, the beam number `bmnum` will change each integration period. However, some control programs will stay on one beam for a whole scan (called a "camping beam"). 
A "scan" is a beam sequence which gets repeated. In the common mode (*normal scan*), one scan is completed when each beam has been sampled sequentially from 0 to `bmnum-1` (or `bmnum-1` to 0). Radars with more than 16 beams *may* sample a subset of beams rather than their full field of view in order to maintain a 1min scan time. 
Scans usually begin on whole-minute boundaries and last for either 1min or 2min. Custom control programs which define different scan lengths may also exist. The `scan` flag is used to indicate the beginning of each scan pattern. A value of 1 or -1 indicates the beginning of the scan, and then the value changes to 0 for the rest the scan. When the `scan` value changes from 0 back to 1 this indicates the end of the scan. 

!!! Note 

>     *Control programs* can change the beam pattern; `cp` will indicate the *control program* numerical value, and `combf` sometimes contains the *control program's* command/name. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Different *control programs* in general have different beam patterns; `cp` will indicate the *control program* numerical value, and `combf` sometimes contains the *control program's* command/name. 
```
